Hello guys we're back for a new lesson today.
You're going to learn what is the single that BHP file and how we can create it.
I hint it's one of the most important thing plate files in wordpress.
Let's start this lesson with a quick recap.
In one of the first lessons of this course I told you that when the page of a WordPress theme opened
a mechanism called the template hierarchy comes into action according to this hierarchy there is a main
template file which is the index that speech file.
Now I think every one of you know that the content of this file is always displayed especially when
WordPress doesn't know which file to load in a given situation.
For example which file will be loaded when someone tries to open a page that doesn't exist in the thing.
Which file would be loaded when someone performs a search for those two moments.
He may have specialized things played fives in the case of a page not found.
We may have a file called for for that BHP which could have inside it I can't say for example Whoops
the page you're visiting doesn't exist.
You want to do a search or return to the home page instead.
But what happens when they don't have a file called for or 4 that page be in our field.
Well what happens is that WordPress doesn't know which file to load and so that the user the site visitor
doesn't come across an empty page or press load in the Excel file instead.
So the index file is what we call a fallback file.
This is what is happening right now in RC when we click on any link that leads to a post.
Since we don't have any specific template file to load what press is loading the index that page be
File for us but the index file cannot be used in any which way because of this we can create a different
thing Pluche file to show a single word press post a unique post and that file will be called single
dot Ph be.
So let's go ahead and create the file
and like everything click File.
Let's start by creating the get header call so get underscore in header
by doing this when they click on a post you'll see that we have our Hetter
and down here that's called the footer.
Now anything we type in here it will be displayed average time click on any link in the post
Ok but that's not what we want.
Why do need great.
Here is a loop that can print out the post contents and this time we'll have a standard WordPress loop.
Ok no custom loops for now.
Before that that's great.
Our H.E. mail markup let's add a DIV tag here with the ID primary and inside it.
Another DIV tag with the ID of main.
Here we are going to create a container so that our content is always centered on the page and the loop
is going to start here the only difference is that we don't need the part that says if I have posts
can you answer why well post this video and try to answer that here.
Yes.
Post this video well.
The answer is pretty obvious.
We are already in the post so we don't need to check for posts right.
If you're already displaying a single post why do you need to check for posts.
It makes no sense at all.
So we start up it a while block while health posts
the post.
Let's close out the while block with enviro.
Now here at this point we can choose to load the full content exactly here or create a new file for
it and then create a new file as called content hyphen single dot page.
Pete and require it to get things like Byard WordPress function
to speed up a bit.
I'm going to place here the contents of this file
from this code.
The only thing you've never seen before is this section here.
I'm using a WordPress function called the ID to display the word post hyphen followed by the ID of each
post.
This can come in handy when we want to style specific post.
In addition we created a header with title.
Notice that the title is the thing and each one tag and since it is the main heading tag of the page
and it doesn't have any links.
Since we don't need the link anymore because we are already inside the post here below have the full
content of the post and that's it.
Let's save this file
and when you open the post link we have a new view for our single post.
As you see we get a totally different look and compare to the view we had before.
For example before we had the Post feature image which came from the index that page before now it don't
have any image and instead of the post excerpt what we have is the full content of the post.
This is now working for all the places where we have links that lead to any WordPress post cause it
but there is still something missing.
What if our visitor wants to comment on our post.
How will he or she do it.
That's what we be learning to do in the next lesson.
I wait for you then by.